
Chandrakanta Chaudhury 
Data Scientist                                           
Email:Chandrakanta87@gmail.com                    	    Mobile: +91-9776465877  /  +91-8886982827   
https://github.com/chandrakanta-chaudhury
                                                                    
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Having 3.6 years of experience in Machine Learning and deep learning algorithms and overall 8 yrs of experience in software engineering and IT industry.
Extremely motivated to constantly develop my skills and grow professionally. 
Confident in my ability to come up with interesting ideas using statistics, Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms to solve business goals and create new dimensions for business  and posses sound knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle Process.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Currently working as Data Scientist with cFog systems pvt ltd  from April 2018.

Worked as senior software engineer with Optum Global Solutions, Hyderabad from December 2015 to March 2018.

Worked as software developer with HTC Global Services, Malaysia from May 2015 to Nov 2015.

Worked as consultant with Polaris software lab, Chennai from 2011 march to march 2015. 

ACADEMICS & CERTIFICATIONS  
Master in computer Application from Anna University, Chennai.
Certified in Deep Learning and Computer Vision (CNN, OpenCv, and SSD), MATLAB with Image processing, Deep Learning with NLP (RNN, chatbots), Artificial Intelligence and Tableau,Introduction to Neo4j.
Technical SKILLS 
Database Systems	       : MS SQL server, MongoDB,DB2,Neo4j
Programming Language    : Python, SQL,R,COBOL,cypher,core Java
 Other skills/Tools	       : Computer vision, NLP, NLTK, Tensorflow,Time series,SVM,
                                               Tableau,H2O,OpenCV,Matplotlib,SPSS,Classification,Regression,
                                              Hadoop,Spark,pytorch,recommendation system,Text analytics    
PROJECTS:
PROJECT 1:
Project title	                  :  CFOG
Duration 		     :  April 2018 - continuing 

Project Description	 :
Cfog is an IOT product which uses predictive analytics for helping aquaculture farmers to mitigate risks and get benefited using technologies.
Responsibilities	:
Data cleaning and pre-processing, feature engineering.
Build and deploy time series forecasting model for forecasting water senors e.g. pH,DO,temp and battery power(Volts)  with RMSE of 0.013 and saving an average  Rs 10,000 per month for  customers on electicr power consumption used for areators .
Build custom object detection POC  using YOLO and deployed to  Nvidia  jetson TX2 with FPS 5-6  and created a  POC for face recognition using google facenet model.
Created Anomaly detection model to identify sensor anomaly data .
Build prediction model to predict disease  among fishes and shrimps due to change in water quality with accuracy 98.5 % .
Build POC using pytorch to detect diseases in paddy fields using Images.
Working on recommendation problem for customer to have right dealers.
PROJECT 2:
Project title	                  :  Eincentives (customer churning)
 Duration 		     :  May 2017 – January 2018
Project Description	 :
UHG uses predictive analytics to classify customers who will be continuing with its providers in future and who are not based on provider historical data and policy holder data.
Responsibilities	:
Coding Python and Pyspark programs to load data and apply machine learning algorithms.
 Apply ensemble model (RF ,xgboost, SVM) for clasification model with accuracy of 95.5 % .
Data cleaning and pre-processing, feature engineering.
Preparing dashboards for business .
PROJECT 3:
Project title	                  :  Vital-Sign Analysis
Duration 		     :  November 2016 – March 2017
Project Description	 :
 An in-house Sentiment analysis using Vital-sign data for employees of Optum global solutions .
Responsibilities	:
Data collection, cleaning and pre-processing text.
  Applying  RNN(LSTM) for predicting employee’s sentiments with an accuracy of  ~ 97 %.



PROJECT 4:
Project title	                  :  Claim Auto-adjudication
 Duration 		     :   February 2016 – September 2016
Project Description	 :
 Claims used to be pending with required claim codes at warehouse and needs manual check of codes for claims, which takes lot of time for claim reviewer.
Responsibilities	:
Build an association rules engine to identify the most frequently occurring set of pend codes. 
 Validating support and confidence.
PROJECT 5:
Project title	                  :  Model management data enrichment (MMDE)
Duration 		     :   May 2015 – November 2015.
Project Description	 :
MMDE is data enrichment project to maintain data warehouse for MAYBANK from different source system running in different technologies. 
Responsibilities	:
Involved in coding Cobol programs and JCL scripts.
Involved in data cleaning and preprocessing and scheduling jobs for report generation.
Preparing test cases and performing UAT.
PROJECT 6 :
Project title	                  :  IMEX Development & Maintenance
Duration 		     :   September 2011 to March 2015
Project Description	 :
 IMEX is a  trade transaction processing system used by SCB and it contains different modules such as letter of credit, Guarantees, Documentary collection, other bills, credit bills and Reimbursement. 
Responsibilities	:	
 Coding COBOL programs  and JCL scripts for automation of reports.
 Involved in production deployments and preparing weekly and monthly dashboard.

PERSONAL DETAILS:	
Name   		: Chandrakanta Chaudhury
Passport No	: J2431496
Nationality         : India
Need work permit :Yes
